# Challenges
## Solution for Challenge 1
We are given a data set from KickStarter campaigns for different categories and sub-categories. The data set includes many data columns, but we focus on the campaign start date, deadline, goal and the final outcome, in terms of number of campaigns (not the total pledged value)
### Outcome by Goal
First in the tab “Outcome Bsead on Goals”, I look at the data to determine whether the campaign goal contributes to its ultimate success or failure. I initially make 8 columns with headers of “Goal”, “Number Successful”, “Number Failed”, “Number Canceled”, “Total Projects”, “Percentage Successful”, “Percentage Failed”, “Percentage Canceled” on the sheet, made 12 new rows with specified group ranges and use Countif function in excel to calculate count of each column withing given goal range. Then on the “total Projects” column calculate total of each row using Excel’s “Sum” function. The percentage column consequently was calculated by deviding each of the first three columns and deviding it by the “Total Projects” column and multiplying it by 100. Finally a line graph was inserted to plot the count of each group versus the group range, for each of the first three columns. 
However I also use the “Lookup” function as a different approach instead of Countif on page “outcomes Based on Launch Goal2” to calculate count of all 12 ranges using pivot table which came up with the same result. 
The conclusion from this part of the challenge based on observation of the line plot for “Outcomes Based on Goal” is that the campaigns with goal of less $1000 has the highest chance of success and least chance of failure, while the campaigns with more than $50000 goal has the highest chance of failure and least chance of success. This is understandable that people would donate more to lower amount goals than higher. Interestingly there seems to be a local maximum in the success rate for the campaing with 40-45k goal. 
### Outcome by Launch Date
On the second part of the challenge, we were asked to look at the success rate of campaigns versus the launch date/month for “theater” categories. The results are on sheet  named “Outcome Based on Lunch Date”. First in the main table, I converted the launch date from Unix format to the mm/dd/yyyy format and then converted it to the month, in which the campaign was launched. Then I made pivot table on outcomes based on lunch months, which help us top look closer to the lunch time which played an important role on dentations. Based on the line chart observation the lunch date peaks on May and then steadily declines until September. 
###Outcome by Duration
Finally I also looked at the campaigns success rate depending on the duration of the campaign. First I calculated the targeted duration for each campaign by subtracting the launch date and deadline and converting it to number of days, in the main table. Then I generated a separate pivot table in tab “Outcomes Based on Duration” that shows campaigns with more than 70 days of duration have more than 85% of success rate.  
